Teresa Wiggin was sitting up in bed
holding her pred of grafts letter called
to testify which means putting him on
exhibit as what a hero
more likely a monster since we already
have various senators decrying the
exploitation of children that'll teach
him to save the human race said her
husband John Paul this is not a time for
flippancy Teresa be reasonable said John
Paul I want Endor home as much as you do
no you don't said Theresa fiercely you
don't ache with the need for him every
day even as she said it she knew she was
being unfair to him and she covered her
eyes and shook her head to his credit he
understood and didn't argue with her
about what he did and did not feel you
can never have the years they've taken
Teresa he's not the boy we knew then
we'll get to know the boy he is here in
our home surrounded by guards that's the
part I refuse to accept who would want
to hurt him John Paul set down the book
he was no longer pretending to read
Theresa you're the smartest person I
know
he's a child he won a war against
incredibly superior forces he fired off
one weapon which he did not design or
deploy he got that weapon into firing
range the formics are gone he's a hero
he's not in danger all right Teresa he's
a hero how is he going to go to middle
school
what eighth grade teacher is ready for
him what school dance is he going to be
ready for it will take time but here
with his family yes we're such a warm
welcoming group of people a love nest
into which he'll fit so easily we do
love each other
Teresa Colonel Graff is only trying to
warn us that Endor isn't just our son
he's nobody else's son you know who
wants to kill our son
no I don't every government that thinks
of American military power as an
obstacle to their plans but ender isn't
going to be in the military he's going
to be this week he won't be in the
American military maybe he won a war at
the age of 12 Theresa what makes you
think he won't be drafted by our
benevolent and democratic government the
moment he gets back to earth or put into
protective custody maybe they'll let us
go with him and maybe they won't Teresa
let the tears flow down her cheeks so
you're saying that when he left here
we lost him forever I'm saying that when
your child goes off to war you will
never get him back not as he was not the
same boy changed if he comes back at all
so let me ask you do you want him to go
where he's in the greatest danger or to
stay where he's relatively safe
you think Graff is trying to get us to
tell him to keep ender with him out
there in space
I think Graff cares what happens to
ender and he's letting us know without
actually saying it because every letter
he sends can be used against him in
court that ender is in terrible danger
not 10 minutes after Enders victory the
Russians made their brutal play for
control of the if' their soldiers killed
thousands of fleet officers before the
IAF was able to force their surrender
what would they have done if they had
one brought under home and put on a big
parade for him Teresa knew all of this
she had known it viscerally at least
from the moment she read graphs let her
know she had known it even before had
known it with a sick dread as soon as
she heard that the formic war was over
he would not be coming home